Numeral notations for non inductive types (#12218)
coq/coq: doc/sphinx/user-extensions/syntax-extensions.rst

         function application, constructors, inductive type families,
         sorts, and primitive integers) will be considered for printing.

         .. note::
            When :n:`@qualid` is a parameterized inductive type, all

>             parameters must be provided via a notation.

Author: Indeed muc clearer, thanks!

            .. coqtop:: in reset

               Definition of_uint (u : Numeral.uint) : list unit :=
                 let fix f n :=
                   match n with O => nil | S n => cons tt (f n) end in
                 f (Nat.of_num_uint u).
               Definition to_uint (l : list unit) : Numeral.uint :=
                 let fix f n :=
                   match n with nil => O | cons tt l => S (f l) end in
                 Nat.to_num_uint (f l).

>                Notation listunit := (list unit) (only parsing).

Author: This seems to work fine, i.e., both checks output `0 : list unit`.
Makes sense since the abbreviation is required only when defining the notation (the `Numeral Notation` line), not when the notation is used.

               Numeral Notation listunit of_uint to_uint : nat_scope.

            .. coqtop:: all

               Check 0.
               Check 1.
               Check 2.

      :n:`via @qualid__ind using ( {+, @qualid @qualid } )`
         When using this variant, the :n:`@qualid` type above no
         longer needs to be an inductive. It is mapped to the
         inductive type (without parameters) :n:`@qualid__ind` according to the provided
         list of pairs :n:`@qualid @qualid` whose first component is a
         constant of type :n:`@qualid` above and the second a
         constructor of type :n:`@qualid__ind`. The above type
         :n:`@qualid` is then replaced by :n:`@qualid__ind` in the
         above parser and printer types.

         .. note::
            To use a sort as target type, use a notation as in example below.

         The following example parses and prints :g:`prod unit (prod unit unit)` as :g:`3`:

         .. coqtop:: in reset

>             Inductive I :=  (* will be used as qualid_ind *)

Author: Indeed not.

Numeral notations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> .. cmd:: Numeral Notation @qualid {? @numeral_via } @qualid__parse @qualid__print : @scope_name {? @numeral_modifier }

Author: Thanks, I managed to run the tool (meaning the documentation seems clear enough, congrats!).
Feel free to review my changes to the docgram files though.

   :name: Numeral Notation

   .. insertprodn numeral_modifier numeral_modifier

   .. prodn::

>       numeral_via      ::= via @qualid__ind using ( {+, @qualid @qualid } )

Author: I tweaked `common.edit_mlg` and got the same thing. Hope I haven't done anything to bad (`LIST1` doesn't seem to be available in `VERNAC ARGUMENT EXTEND`).

>       numeral_via      ::= via @qualid__ind using ( {+, @qualid @qualid } )

Reviewer: Ah, it is valid, just uncommon.  My bad.

`dev/doc/parsing.md` explains how to do LIST1 for `VERNAC ARGUMENT EXTEND` in the section "Alternate production syntax".

Numeral notations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. cmd:: Numeral Notation @qualid {? @numeral_via } @qualid__parse @qualid__print : @scope_name {? @numeral_modifier }
   :name: Numeral Notation

   .. insertprodn numeral_via numeral_via

   .. prodn::
      numeral_via ::= via @qualid__ind using ( {+, @qualid @qualid } )

>    .. insertprodn numeral_modifier numeral_modifier

Reviewer: You only need a single `insertprodn` and `prodn` here.  In `orderedGrammar`, move the definition for `numeral_via` to be just before `numeral_modifier` and update the `insertprodn` arguments here.  Then rerun `make doc_gram_rsts`.

Author: Thanks

         function application, constructors, inductive type families,
         sorts, and primitive integers) will be considered for printing.

         .. note::
            Numeral notations for parameterized inductive type can be
            added by declaring an :ref:`abbreviation <Abbreviations>`
            for the inductive which instantiates all parameters.

            .. coqtop:: in reset

               Definition of_uint (u : Numeral.uint) : list unit :=
                 let fix f n :=
                   match n with O => nil | S n => cons tt (f n) end in
                 f (Nat.of_num_uint u).
               Definition to_uint (l : list unit) : Numeral.uint :=
                 let fix f n :=
                   match n with nil => O | cons tt l => S (f l) end in
                 Nat.to_num_uint (f l).

               Notation listunit := (list unit) (only parsing).
               Numeral Notation listunit of_uint to_uint : nat_scope.

            .. coqtop:: all

               Check 0.
               Check 1.
               Check 2.

>       :n:`via @qualid__ind using ( {+, @qualid @qualid } )`

Reviewer: You won't be able to use `qualid__ind` here.  The tool doesn't support it.

Author: I made an alias to reference called `qualid__ind`, I hope there is nothing wrong with that.

         When using this variant, the :n:`@qualid` type above no
         longer needs to be an inductive. It is mapped to the
         inductive type (without parameters) :n:`@qualid__ind` according to the provided
         list of pairs :n:`@qualid @qualid` whose first component is a
         constant of type :n:`@qualid` above
         (or a function of type :n:`{* _ -> } @qualid`) and the second a
         constructor of type :n:`@qualid__ind`. The above type
         :n:`@qualid` is then replaced by :n:`@qualid__ind` in the
         above parser and printer types.

         .. note::
            To use a sort as target type, use an :ref:`abbreviation <Abbreviations>`
            as in example below.

>          The following example parses and prints :g:`prod unit (prod unit unit)` as :g:`3`.

Reviewer: Would you move this example to the end of the subsection and add a hyperlink here?

We like to keep the syntax explanations of each element brief so the command syntax and the explanations (e.g. the box below and the following text) are in the same screen full as much as possible.  And easy for the reader to scan.  This command description on this point already deserved some rewriting on this point.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1253341/91906030-5c6cc500-ec5c-11ea-8e60-705b23f2938e.png)

Reviewer: Also, the example is very long.  If you can shorten it or split it into multiple examples that would be better, also add some explanations along the way on the significant details that the reader should observe.  Really you should be ruthless about making examples as short and pointed as possible so that someone new to the feature can grasp them quickly.

And please start with `.. example:: INSERT TITLE FOR EXAMPLE`.

Your build didn't generate the reference manual, so I couldn't see the example with the coqtop processing.

            | Iempty : I
            | Iunit : I
            | Iprod : I -> I -> I.

            Definition of_uint (x : Numeral.uint) : I :=
              let fix f n :=
                match n with
                | O => Iempty
                | S O => Iunit
                | S n => Iprod Iunit (f n)
                end in
              f (Nat.of_num_uint x).

            Definition to_uint (x : I) : Numeral.uint :=
              let fix f i :=
                match i with
                | Iempty => O
                | Iunit => 1
                | Iprod i1 i2 => f i1 + f i2
                end in
              Nat.to_num_uint (f x).

            Inductive prod (A : Set) (B : Set) : Set := pair : A -> B -> prod A B.

         .. coqtop:: in

            Notation nSet := Set (only parsing).
            Numeral Notation nSet via I using (Empty_set Iempty, unit Iunit, prod Iprod)
              of_uint to_uint : type_scope.

         .. coqtop:: all

            Local Open Scope type_scope.

            Check Empty_set.
            Check unit.
            Check prod unit unit.
            Check prod unit (prod unit unit).

         .. coqtop:: all

            Set Printing All.

>             Check 0.

Reviewer: Is it necessary to Check all 4 of these values?  Be ruthless.

            Check 1.
            Check 2.
            Check 3.

         .. note::

>             When the terms mapped to the constructors of
>             :n:`@qualid__ind` have implicit arguments, those are
>             ignored when translating to the inductive type
>             :n:`@qualid__ind` before calling :n:`@qualid__parse` and
>             filled with implicit argument holes :g:`_` after
>             :n:`@qualid__print`. Note that this makes numeral
>             notations fragile with respect to implicit argument
>             status. Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            Terms mapped to the constructors of
            :n:`@qualid__ind` that have implicit arguments are
            ignored when translating to the inductive type
            :n:`@qualid__ind` before calling :n:`@qualid__parse` and
            filled with implicit argument holes :g:`_` after
            :n:`@qualid__print`. This makes numeral
            notations fragile in relation to implicit arguments. Example:
```

Author: This changes the meaning of the first sentence (the things that are ignored are the arguments, not the terms) but this points out that the sentence is ambiguous. I have to rephrase that.

                 of_uint to_uint : fin_scope.

               Local Open Scope fin_scope.

            .. coqtop:: all

               Check 0.
               Check 1.
               Check 2.
               Check 3.
               Check 0 : Fin.t 3.
               Check 1 : Fin.t 3.
               Check 2 : Fin.t 3.
               Fail Check 3 : Fin.t 3.

      :n:`( warning after @num )`
         displays a warning message about a possible stack
         overflow when calling :n:`@qualid__parse` to parse a literal larger than :n:`@num`.

         .. warn:: Stack overflow or segmentation fault happens when working with large numbers in @type (threshold may vary depending on your system limits and on the command executed).

            When a :cmd:`Numeral Notation` is registered in the current scope
            with :n:`(warning after @num)`, this warning is emitted when
            parsing a numeral greater than or equal to :token:`num`.

      :n:`( abstract after @num )`
         returns :n:`(@qualid__parse m)` when parsing a literal
         :n:`m` that's greater than :n:`@num` rather than reducing it to a normal form.
         Here :g:`m` will be a

>          :g:`Numeral.int` or :g:`Numeral.uint` or :g:`Z` or :g:`Numeral.numeral`, depending on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         :g:`Numeral.int`, :g:`Numeral.uint`, :g:`Z` or :g:`Numeral.numeral`, depending on the
```

         function application, constructors, inductive type families,
         sorts, and primitive integers) will be considered for printing.

      .. _number-string-via:

      :n:`via @qualid__ind using ( {+, @qualid__constant @qualid__constructor } )`
         When using this option, :n:`@qualid__type` no
         longer needs to be an inductive and is mapped to the
         inductive :n:`@qualid__ind` according to the provided
         list of pairs, whose first component :n:`@qualid__constant` is a
         constant of type :n:`@qualid__type`
         (or a function of type :n:`{* _ -> } @qualid__type`) and the second a
         constructor of type :n:`@qualid__ind`. The type
         :n:`@qualid__type` is then replaced by :n:`@qualid__ind` in the
         above parser and printer types.

         When :n:`@qualid__constant` is surrounded by square brackets,

>          the implicit arguments of :n:`@qualid__constant` are ignored

Reviewer 2: Please specify whether this computation is performed at the numeral notation declaration time or whether it is performed when the notation is used.  (I think it should be the first; it seems bad for `Arguments` to be able to break a numeral notation.)  Please also clarify if there's any difference between maximally inserted implicits and non-maximally-inserted implicits, how constants with multiple options for implicit arguments are treated (such as `eq_refl` in `Arguments eq_refl {A x} , [A] x`), and whether only the leading implicits are considered, or if all implicits are considered.

         (or a function of type :n:`{* _ -> } @qualid__type`) and the second a
         constructor of type :n:`@qualid__ind`. The type
         :n:`@qualid__type` is then replaced by :n:`@qualid__ind` in the
         above parser and printer types.

         When :n:`@qualid__constant` is surrounded by square brackets,
         all the implicit arguments of :n:`@qualid__constant` (whether maximally inserted or not) are ignored
         when translating to :n:`@qualid__constructor` (i.e., before
         applying :n:`@qualid__print`) and replaced with implicit
         argument holes :g:`_` when translating from
         :n:`@qualid__constructor` to :n:`@qualid__constant` (after
         :n:`@qualid__parse`). See below for an :ref:`example <example-number-notation-implicit-args>`.

         .. note::
            The implicit status of the arguments is considered
            only at notation declaration time, any further
            modification of this status has no impact
            on the previously declared notations.

         .. note::
            In case of multiple implicit options (for instance
            :g:`Arguments eq_refl {A}%type_scope {x}, [_] _`), an

>             argument is considered implicit when it is in any of the

Reviewer 2: Minor:
```suggestion
            argument is considered implicit when it is implicit in any of the
```

            options.

         .. note::
            To use a :token:`sort` as the target type :n:`@qualid__type`, use an :ref:`abbreviation <Abbreviations>`

>             as in :ref:`example below <example-number-notation-non-inductive>`.

Reviewer 2: Minor:
```suggestion
            as in the :ref:`example below <example-number-notation-non-inductive>`.
```

            As noted above, the :n:`(abstract after @natural)` directive has no
            effect when :n:`@qualid__parse` lands in an :g:`option` type.

         .. exn:: 'via' and 'abstract' cannot be used together.

            With the :n:`abstract after` option, the parser function
            :n:`@qualid__parse` does not reduce large numbers to a normal form,

>             which prevents doing the translation given in the :n:`using` list

Reviewer 2: Minor:
```suggestion
            which prevents doing the translation given in the :n:`using` list.
```

     The number notation registered for :token:`type` does not support
     the given number.  This error is given when the interpretation
     function returns :g:`None`, or if the interpretation is registered
     only for integers or non-negative integers, and the given number
     has a fractional or exponent part or is negative.

   .. exn:: @qualid__parse should go from Number.int to @type or (option @type). Instead of Number.int, the types Number.uint or Z or Int63.int or Number.number could be used (you may need to require BinNums or Number or Int63 first).

     The parsing function given to the :cmd:`Number Notation`
     vernacular is not of the right type.

   .. exn:: @qualid__print should go from @type to Number.int or (option Number.int).  Instead of Number.int, the types Number.uint or Z or Int63.int or Number.number could be used (you may need to require BinNums or Number or Int63 first).

     The printing function given to the :cmd:`Number Notation`
     vernacular is not of the right type.

   .. exn:: Unexpected term @term while parsing a number notation.

     Parsing functions must always return ground terms, made up of

>      applications of constructors, inductive types, and primitive

Reviewer 2: Are sorts included in this list?  They are included in the list of ground terms below.  I think we should mention here as well whether they are permitted or forbidden.

            As noted above, the :n:`(abstract after @num)` directive has no
            effect when :n:`@qualid__parse` lands in an :g:`option` type.

         .. exn:: 'via' and 'abstract' cannot be used together.

>             Since the parser is not actually run with :n:`abstract`,

Author: Thanks!

     concrete string expressed as a decimal.  They may not return
     opaque constants.

.. note::
   Number or string notations for parameterized inductive types can be
   added by declaring an :ref:`abbreviation <Abbreviations>` for the
   inductive which instantiates all parameters. See example below.

> The :n:`via` option applies to both string and number notations:

Reviewer: I'd move the info on `via` to the Number Notation, where you give the syntax.  It should appear after qualid__type and before "( abstract after bignat )" (i.e., in the order it appears in the Number Notation command.  In String Notation, you can put a similar header for `via` and have it refer to the description in Number Notation.

And the sentence "... option applies" probably not needed.

Author: I agree, done

:n:`via @qualid__ind using ( {+, @qualid__constant @qualid__constructor } )`

>    When using this variant, :n:`@qualid__type` no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   When using this option, :n:`@qualid__type` no
```

>    longer needs to be an inductive. It is mapped to the

Reviewer: It?  You mean "the number"?

Author: `qualid__type`, I replaced ". It" by "and", hope it's less ambiguous.

   inductive :n:`@qualid__ind` according to the provided
   list of pairs whose first component :n:`@qualid__constant` is a
   constant of type :n:`@qualid__type`
   (or a function of type :n:`{* _ -> } @qualid__type`) and the second a
   constructor of type :n:`@qualid__ind`. The type
   :n:`@qualid__type` is then replaced by :n:`@qualid__ind` in the
   above parser and printer types.

   When :n:`@qualid__constant` is surrounded by square brackets,
   the implicit arguments of :n:`@qualid__constant` are ignored
   when translating to :n:`@qualid__constructor` (i.e., before

>    applying :n:`@qualid__print`) and filled with implicit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   applying :n:`@qualid__print`) and are replaced with implicit
```

Maybe?

   argument holes :g:`_` when translating from
   :n:`@qualid__constructor` to :n:`@qualid__constant` (after

>    :n:`@qualid__parse`). See below for an example.

Reviewer: Best practice is to provide a hyperlink (maybe on "example") to the example since it's more than a screenful away.

Author: Thanks, done

   .. note::

>       To use a sort as target type :n:`@qualid__type`, use an :ref:`abbreviation <Abbreviations>`

Author: Thanks!

     concrete string expressed as a decimal.  They may not return
     opaque constants.

.. note::
   Number or string notations for parameterized inductive types can be
   added by declaring an :ref:`abbreviation <Abbreviations>` for the
   inductive which instantiates all parameters. See :ref:`example below <example-string-notation-parameterized-inductive>`.

The following errors apply to both string and number notations:

   .. exn:: @type is not an inductive type.

     String and number notations can only be declared for inductive types.
     Declare string or numeral notations for non-inductive types using :n:`@number_string_via`.

   .. exn:: @qualid was already mapped to @qualid and cannot be remapped to @qualid

      Duplicates are not allowed in the :n:`using` list.

   .. exn:: Missing mapping for constructor @qualid

      A mapping should be provided for :n:`@qualid` in the :n:`using` list.

   .. warn:: @type was already mapped to @type, mapping it also to @type might yield ill typed terms when using the notation.

      Two pairs in the :n:`using` list associate types that might be incompatible.

>    .. warn:: Type of @qualid seem incompatible with the type of @qualid. Expected type is: @type. This might yield ill typed terms when using the notation.

Reviewer 2: Minor: I would suggest using "seems" rather than "seem" for correct grammar, and also mentioning the type that was found, not just the expected type.  (Be sure to change the actual error message too if you change this)

            As noted above, the :n:`(abstract after @num)` directive has no
            effect when :n:`@qualid__parse` lands in an :g:`option` type.

         .. exn:: 'via' and 'abstract' cannot be used together.

            Since the parser is not actually reduced with :n:`abstract`,
            its result cannot be translated from :n:`@qualid__ind` to

>             the actual type.

Reviewer: I don't understand what you mean by "is not actually reduced with".

Reviewer 2: When you pass `(abstract after X)` to the `Numeral Notation`, then numerals larger than `X` are interpreted as the application of the parser to the decimal constant.  Hence we don't have access to the normal form, so cannot perform the translation.

Reviewer: Thanks. I think it should be reworded, too.

   .. exn:: @type is not an inductive type.

>      String and numeral notations can only be declared for inductive types.

Author: Indeed

     .. todo note on "single qualified identifiers" https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/11718#discussion_r415076703

.. example:: Number Notation for a non inductive type

   The following example parses and prints :g:`prod unit (prod unit unit)` as :g:`3`.

>    The inductive :g:`I` will be used as :n:`@qualid__ind`.

Reviewer: Is this a realistic example?  Realistic examples are better except if it makes the example a lot longer/more complex.  If appropriate, you could say that the example is a bit contrived.  Also, how about informally explaining the `prod` representation?  (Just curious: how do you represent zero and one?)

Author: I agree the example is a bit artificial, but I don't have any natural example in mind that would not be much longer.
Maybe @JasonGross can think of a less artificial example?

Reviewer 2: What about an example that parses and prints `sum unit (sum unit ( .. (sum unit unit) .. ))` as the number of `unit`s, i.e., notations for ad-hoc non-empty finite types of natural-number size?

   .. coqtop:: in

      Inductive I := Iempty : I | Iunit : I | Iprod : I -> I -> I.

   We then define :n:`@qualid__parse` and :n:`@qualid__print`

   .. coqtop:: in

      Definition of_uint (x : Number.uint) : I :=
        let fix f n := match n with
          | O => Iempty | S O => Iunit
          | S n => Iprod Iunit (f n) end in
        f (Nat.of_num_uint x).

      Definition to_uint (x : I) : Number.uint :=
        let fix f i := match i with
          | Iempty => O | Iunit => 1
          | Iprod i1 i2 => f i1 + f i2 end in
        Nat.to_num_uint (f x).

      Inductive prod (A : Set) (B : Set) : Set := pair : A -> B -> prod A B.

   the number notation itself

   .. coqtop:: in

      Notation nSet := Set (only parsing).
      Number Notation nSet via I using (Empty_set Iempty, unit Iunit, prod Iprod)
        of_uint to_uint : type_scope.

   and check the printer

   .. coqtop:: all

      Local Open Scope type_scope.
      Check prod unit (prod unit unit).

   and the parser

   .. coqtop:: all

      Set Printing All.
      Check 3.

> .. example:: Number Notation with implicit arguments

Reviewer: How about informally describing the number notation used here?

Author: done

   .. coqtop:: all reset

      Require Import Vector.
      Print Fin.t.

   Note the implicit arguments of :g:`Fin.F1` and :g:`Fin.FS`.
   They won't appear in the corresponding inductive type.

   .. coqtop:: in

      Inductive I := I1 : I | IS : I -> I.

      Definition of_uint (x : Number.uint) : I :=
        let fix f n := match n with O => I1 | S n => IS (f n) end in
        f (Nat.of_num_uint x).

      Definition to_uint (x : I) : Number.uint :=
        let fix f i := match i with I1 => O | IS n => S (f n) end in
        Nat.to_num_uint (f x).

      Declare Scope fin_scope.
      Delimit Scope fin_scope with fin.
      Local Open Scope fin_scope.
      Number Notation Fin.t via I using ([Fin.F1] I1, [Fin.FS] IS) of_uint to_uint : fin_scope.

   Now :g:`2` is parsed as :g:`Fin.FS (Fin.FS Fin.F1)`, that is
   :g:`@Fin.FS _ (@Fin.FS _ (@Fin.F1 _))`.

   .. coqtop:: all

      Check 2.

   .. coqtop:: all

      Check 2 : Fin.t 3.

   .. coqtop:: all fail

>       Check 2 : Fin.t 2.

Reviewer: It's not obvious why the one works and the other doesn't.  Can you explain?  Intuitively, I would expect `Check 2 : Fin.t 2.` would work.  Note that I'm not spending too much time to dive deeply into the feature/description.  OTOH, the doc should be much easier to understand than an academic paper, e.g. don't skip explanations.

Author: Indeed, I added more explanations.

.. example:: String Notation with a parameterized inductive type

   The parameter :g:`Byte.byte` for the parameterized inductive type
   :g:`list` is given through an :ref:`abbreviation <Abbreviations>`.

   .. coqtop:: in reset

      Notation string := (list Byte.byte) (only parsing).
      Definition id_string := @id string.

      String Notation string id_string id_string : list_scope.

>       Check "abc"%list.

Reviewer: I think you want `coqtop:: all` for the Check.

          | Decimal.Nil => Some x0
          | Decimal.D0 u => match f u with Some u => Some (x3 u) | None => None end
          | Decimal.D1 u => match f u with Some u => Some (x3p1 u) | None => None end
          | Decimal.D2 u => match f u with Some u => Some (x3p2 u) | None => None end
          | _ => None end in
        f (Decimal.rev u).
      Definition of_uint (u : Number.uint) : option radix3 :=
        match u with Number.UIntDec u => of_uint_dec u | Number.UIntHex _ => None end.

   and a printing function

   .. coqtop:: in

      Definition to_uint_dec (x : radix3) : Decimal.uint :=
        let fix f x := match x with
          | x0 => Decimal.Nil
          | x3 x => Decimal.D0 (f x)
          | x3p1 x => Decimal.D1 (f x)
          | x3p2 x => Decimal.D2 (f x) end in
        Decimal.rev (f x).
      Definition to_uint (x : radix3) : Number.uint := Number.UIntDec (to_uint_dec x).

   before declaring the notation

   .. coqtop:: in

      Declare Scope radix3_scope.
      Open Scope radix3_scope.
      Number Notation radix3 of_uint to_uint : radix3_scope.

   We can check the printer

   .. coqtop:: all

      Check x3p2 (x3p1 x0).

>    and the the parser

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   and the parser
```

   .. coqtop:: all

      Set Printing All.
      Check 120.

   Digits other than :g:`0`, :g:`1` and :g:`2` are rejected.

   .. coqtop:: all fail

      Check 3.

.. _example-number-notation-non-inductive:

.. example:: Number Notation for a non inductive type

>    The following example encodes the terms :g:`sum unit ( ... (sum unit unit) ... )`
>    as the number of inhabitants of this type. For instance :g:`sum unit (sum unit unit)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The following example encodes the terms in the form :g:`sum unit ( ... (sum unit unit) ... )`
   as the number of inhabitants of this type. For instance :g:`sum unit (sum unit unit)`
```

Maybe simpler to say "as the number of units in the term".  "number of inhabitants of this type" seems a little off

   .. coqtop:: in reset

      Inductive I := Iempty : I | Iunit : I | Isum : I -> I -> I.

   We then define :n:`@qualid__parse` and :n:`@qualid__print`

   .. coqtop:: in

      Definition of_uint (x : Number.uint) : I :=
        let fix f n := match n with
          | O => Iempty | S O => Iunit
          | S n => Isum Iunit (f n) end in
        f (Nat.of_num_uint x).

      Definition to_uint (x : I) : Number.uint :=
        let fix f i := match i with
          | Iempty => O | Iunit => 1
          | Isum i1 i2 => f i1 + f i2 end in
        Nat.to_num_uint (f x).

      Inductive sum (A : Set) (B : Set) : Set := pair : A -> B -> sum A B.

   the number notation itself

   .. coqtop:: in

      Notation nSet := Set (only parsing).
      Number Notation nSet via I using (Empty_set Iempty, unit Iunit, sum Isum)
        of_uint to_uint : type_scope.

   and check the printer

   .. coqtop:: all

      Local Open Scope type_scope.
      Check sum unit (sum unit unit).

   and the parser

   .. coqtop:: all

      Set Printing All.
      Check 3.

.. _example-number-notation-implicit-args:

.. example:: Number Notation with implicit arguments

>    The following examples parses and prints natural numbers between

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The following example parses and prints natural numbers between
```

Or "parse and print" depending.

        match u with Number.UIntDec u => of_uint_dec u | Number.UIntHex _ => None end.

   and a printing function

   .. coqtop:: in

      Definition to_uint_dec (x : radix3) : Decimal.uint :=
        let fix f x := match x with
          | x0 => Decimal.Nil
          | x3 x => Decimal.D0 (f x)
          | x3p1 x => Decimal.D1 (f x)
          | x3p2 x => Decimal.D2 (f x) end in
        Decimal.rev (f x).
      Definition to_uint (x : radix3) : Number.uint := Number.UIntDec (to_uint_dec x).

   before declaring the notation

   .. coqtop:: in

      Declare Scope radix3_scope.
      Open Scope radix3_scope.
      Number Notation radix3 of_uint to_uint : radix3_scope.

   We can check the printer

   .. coqtop:: all

      Check x3p2 (x3p1 x0).

   and the the parser

   .. coqtop:: all

      Set Printing All.
      Check 120.

   Digits other than :g:`0`, :g:`1` and :g:`2` are rejected.

   .. coqtop:: all fail

      Check 3.

.. _example-number-notation-non-inductive:

.. example:: Number Notation for a non inductive type

   The following example parses and prints natural numbers as terms of
   type :g:`Set` such that :g:`0` stands for :g:`Empty_set`, while :g:`1`

>    is parsed as :g:`unit` and :g:`3` means :g:`prod unit (prod unit unit)`

Reviewer 2: I think you should use `sum`, not `prod`, so that this actually gives you finite types. (`unit * unit` is isomorphic to `unit`, while `unit + unit` has two inhabitants)

   .. exn:: @type is not an inductive type.

     String and numeral notations can only be declared for inductive types.

>      Declare string or numeral notations for non-inductive types using ``via``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Declare string or numeral notations for non-inductive types using :n:`@numeral_via`.
```
Or whatever it's called.  This way there is a hyperlink to that syntax.

   .. exn:: Missing mapping for constructor @qualid

      A mapping should be provided for :n:`@qualid` in the :n:`using` list.

   .. exn:: @qualid was already mapped to @qualid and cannot be remapped to @qualid

>       No duplicates are allowed in the :n:`using` list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Duplicates are not allowed in the :n:`using` list.
```

   .. exn:: @qualid is incompatible with @qualid . Its expected type is: @type .

>       One of the mappings given in the :n:`using` list is not well typed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      A mapping given in the :n:`using` list is not well typed.
```
